>> Richard Feldman: Remember
from our previous section,
we talked about some of
these function guarantees.
All right, so same arguments,
same return value, no side effects.
In other words,
all Elm functions are pure.
This is not quite true in JavaScript.
It's not quite the case that all
JavaScript functions are pure.
In fact,
there's really no guarantees around
what are pure functions in JavaScript.
Then which is why in a lot of JavaScript
libraries, you have things that say like
in react like hey,
your render function should be pure.
Please make sure you don't side
effects in your render functions or
your Redux producers.
Please make sure they are pure,
it's really important that it's purr.
Because otherwise,
bad things are gonna happen.
In Elm,
you don't have to worry about that,
because all Elm functions
are guaranteed to be pure.
However, this is a section about talking
to JavaScript which means that we have to
deal with the fact that while
Elm functions are pure and
we want to we able to rely on that and
put it out of our minds and
not have to think about these things, not
have to have these worries, we also want
to interoperate with a language where
those guarantees are not in effect.
So how can we do that?
All right, how can we deal with a world
where we have stuff like math.random or
setting stuff in local storage directly?
In other words, how can we access
the enormous JavaScript ecosystem?
The largest in the world
with all these millions,
it's not millions, but it's a large,
large number of packages while maintaining
all the guarantees that let us code in Elm
without worrying about all those things.
So the answer is that the way that Elm
talks to JavaScript is essentially using
the metaphor of
client/server communication.
It's message passing.
It's sending immutable data
from Elm to JavaScript and
the receiving immutable data
from JavaScript to Elm.
And fortunately,
as we just saw in the previous section,
we can do that in Elm without
losing any of our guarantees.
We just did in the last exercise, HTTP
which is sending data from Elm to a server
written in a completely
different language.
We have no idea what language it is.
It could be JavaScript.
It could be PHP.
It could be Python, Pearl,
Ruby Assembly, anything.
We have no idea what the guarantees,
but we don't care.
Because all we're doing is sending
immunity data into it like an HTTP post or
a get and there were receiving
immutable data back from it,
which we then decoded
into our application.
And at no point, do we ever have to worry
about sacrificing any of these guarantees,
any function period, anything like that?
Now we're not literally doing
client/server communication to talk
to JavaScript,
because that would require going over
the network to go out to the network and
then come back to the browser which
will be way too much overhead.
But metaphorically,
that's what we're doing here.
The API is designed to have
the same characteristics as
client/server communication,
so that we can freely communicate to
JavaScript without sacrificing any of
these guarantees that we've had throughout
the course of the entire workshop.
So basically, Elm sends data to JS and
then JS can send data to Elm and
that's how they communicate.
There's no direct function
calls at any point in this.
So you cannot in the middle of an Elm
function say, hey, call math.random.
I can't do it.
Instead, we're gonna use commands and
subscriptions exclusively to
communicate with JavaScript.
So there sort of like
two ways that this goes.
So when you send a command
from the Elm side,
that's going to result in a callback
being fired on the JavaScript side.
So here's our command that we're sending.
It's not quite going to be a command with
a capital M like what we had before.
It's going to actually result in
a command with a lower case M.
So we're gonna go on a brief tangent and
explain what that means when you have
a command with a type variable that is
unbound which is to say a command where
the type variable has a lower case m, but
there's no message anywhere
else in this function.
Up to this point,
every time we've seen a type variable,
there have been two of them.
All right, we had list out reverse
had list elem to list elem.
This is just command message, lower case
m, but there is no other message anywhere.
It's like not corresponding to anything.
What does that actually mean?
Okay, so at this point, all of our
type variables have come in pairs,
but list.length is one that we sort
of intuitively know how it works.
But it doesn't come in a pair, right?
List.length says,
you can give me a list of anything and
I can tell you what the result is,
it's an Int.
No matter what type of list you give me.
You can give me a list of strings,
a list of integers, a list of floats,
anything and
I'll tell you what the length is.
So kind of intuitively we can figure out,
well, all right, that makes sense.
I guess it's saying, it's a type variable,
because what it means is.
This is flexible.
We can give it any list we want and
it will be able to give us back an ent.